# MODEL3618487388: Poolman2009_Metab_Arabidopsis_red

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL3618487388.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL3618487388.git@20140916`

## Usage

Importing the model package.

`import MODEL3618487388 as model`

Get the SBML string from the model

`print model.sbmlString`

If [python-libsbml](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/python-libsbml) bindings are
installed, the libsbml.SBMLDocument object is also accessible

`model.sbml`


# Model Notes


This is the reduced model of the Arabidopsis metabolic network described in
the article:  
**A Genome-scale Metabolic Model of Arabidopsis thaliana and Some of its Properties.**   
Poolman MG, Miguet L, Sweetlove LJ and Fell DA. **Plant Physiol.** 2009 Sep
15. [Epub ahead of print] PMID:
[19755544](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19755544) , doi:
[10.1104/pp.109.141267](http://dx.doi.org/10.1104/pp.109.141267)  
**Abstract:**   
We describe the construction and analysis of a genome-scale metabolic model of
_Arabidopsis thaliana_ primarily derived from the annotations in the Aracyc
database. We used techniques based on Linear Programming to demonstrate that:
1) the model is capable of producing biomass components (amino-acids,
nucleotides, lipid, starch and cellulose) in the proportion observed
experimentally in a heterotrophic suspension culture ; 2) That, approximately,
only 15 % of the available reactions are needed for this purpose and that the
size of this network is comparable to estimates of minimal network size for
other organisms ; 3) That reactions may be grouped according to the changes in
flux resulting from a hypothetical stimulus (in this case demand for ATP), and
that this allows the identification of potential metabolic modules ; 4) That
total ATP demand for growth and maintenance can be inferred, and that this is
consistent with previous estimates in prokaryotes and yeast.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


